This lecture is brought to you by Buford Road Baptist Church.
The speaker today is Deacon Danny Cahoot.
This is a difficult lesson for me because I really don't know a whole lot about it, but I've done some studying on it.
I don't know how much y'all know about it.
Maybe y'all can help me as we get further down the road.
But it's a lesson on starting in the Old Testament on the showbread.
was an element in the temple.
And for 40 years as the Jewish people were roaming through after the Exodus, God provided manna for them to eat.
And then when he set up the elements in the temple, he set up show bread that's on the first part of the temple.
I'll get into that in a second.
But let's go to all.
Let's see, I want to go to John chapter 6 first.
I'm just going to cover a little bit into John because it leads from the showbreak.
The showbreak is a symbol.
It's just a symbol that God had used to become a constant reminder to the Jewish people of he is the provider.
It is his source of nourishment
And so we'll get into that in a minute on how it goes into the temple.
Let's go to John chapter 6 right now.
And I'm going to go a couple of other chapters back over, and I'm going to bounce back.
This will all make sense here in just a minute, I promise you.
In John chapter 6, verse, let's start with verse 29.
Jesus answered and said unto them, this is the work of God that you believe on him who he had sent.
They said unto him, what sign show us thou then that we may see and believe?
What do us thou work?
Our fathers did eat manhunt in the desert, as it is written.
He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
And Jesus said unto them, verily I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven.
That's what he's talking about himself.
But my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.
So he's relating the manner that Moses gave, but it came from God, not Moses.
Let's look at that real close again.
Our fathers, this is verse 31, Our fathers did eat manna in the desert as it is written.
He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
Then Jesus said unto them, Well, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread,
from heaven.
Moses didn't give them the mantle.
God sent the mantle from heaven.
And that's what they ate for 40 years.
But my father gave you the true bread from heaven, for the bread of God is He which comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.
Then they sent unto Him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.
And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life.
He that cometh to me shall never hunger.
He that believeth on me shall never thirst.
But I say unto you, that ye also have seen me, and believe not, all that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out."
All right, I'm not gonna touch base too much on that, but let's go to one other verse and I'll flip back to the New Testament.
Exodus chapter 16, verse 35.
This is going to show you here that they actually did eat manna for 40 years.
Exodus chapter 16.
I think it's verse 35.
As the Lord commanded, this is verse 34.
The Lord commanded Exodus 16, 34.
as the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony kept.
And the children of Israel did eat man of 40 years until they came into the land inhabited.
And they did eat man until they came into all the borders of the land of Canaan.
Okay, so let's look at that a little bit.
I'm trying to get my scriptures here.
There you go.
I've got my notes here.
You know what?
Before I get there, I want to cover one thing that has happened and come across this.
It's crazy what some people believe.
The Hindus.
I'm going to touch back on this in a minute.
This just came to my mind.
I was looking at some things what these Hindus actually believe about reincarnation.
There's a temple in India that they call the Manakari Temple.
It's got 15,000 rats in it.
These worshipers worship rats.
They believe that their relatives die and come back as rats.
And when people are born, they're reincarnated to birth from rats.
Every human, you came from a rat.
And they've got these people that come in and you can Google this yourself.
I had to Google it because I couldn't believe what some people believe.
And there's this big temple they got set up with these rats.
And the families come in and they eat with them, they eat together with them, they're crawling all over them.
And they actually believe that they're coming back as rats.
How in the world can human people... And they've got this one family, they were interviewing him.
The whole center of this temple was salvation to them.
They migrate from all over.
And they come to this temple, sometimes stay weeks at a time.
hoping to see the white rat.
He had his family there, his kids there, and they were saying, and they were talking to him, this interviewer, this is on YouTube.
I know that if I see the white rat, that's our salvation.
They believe that when they see the white rat, then they are saved.
They're going to heaven from just visually seeing the white rat.
And they're all in front of this temple, the whole family just sitting there, watching these rats run back and forth.
And he happened to catch him seeing one.
And he jumped up and says, oh, it was mama on some kind of chance.
He had seen the white rats.
He gathered up his family and left.
Now, his family is saying, isn't that crazy?
And I started looking at these Hindus.
And some of them, the majority of them, think that they come back as cow.
And I just would make me think of all this as wondering how they believe it.
As I went to get a load of hay this past week from our farmer out in the county.
And I was looking at the cowfield out there.
How in the world can somebody sit there and say, there's Uncle John.
Good to see you there.
No, that's my daddy.
He died 30 years ago.
and just look at these cows in the field, thousands and thousands, and think that that's actually people.
And the cows just sitting, you ever seen a cow look at a new gate?
There's my daddy.
How is that possible?
That somebody's heart can sink so low to believe that?
That's, I don't know.
I don't know why I even thought of that, but I just had to get it off my mind because I was just wondering, you know, it's so much easier to believe history that's actual fact, things that actually happen, monuments and statues and things of people that actually lived and were documented and people have written about.
So let's go to, all right, hold on, 12 blues, let's see.
And I'll get it going in a second.
I got my scriptures on backwards here.
Okay.
Exodus chapter 25.
We'll cover how the show bed came about, because, you know, they were traveling in the wilderness and all in awe.
God told Moses, set up a tabernacle.
Now the tabernacle was not the temple.
It would eventually become the temple.
And this is how I want y'all to worship in the temple, in the tabernacle.
Okay, this is strictly talking about the showbread, not the mercy seat, not the cherubim's, not the sacrifice, and that's just strictly, strictly the showbread.
Okay.
Verse chapter 25, verse 10.
They shall make an ark of shydom wood, which is a kale wood, which is a real hard wood, which is like the white oak.
25 times harder than a white oak.
It's supposed to be the most durable wood there is.
The British even made ships out of their case, you would.
I think that's how you pronounce it.
And so the shydom wood is the archaic wood.
Let's see.
Two cubics and a half shall be the length of it, and a cubic and a half the breadth of it, and a cubic and a half the height of it.
Thou shalt overlay it with pure gold.
Within thou shalt overlay it, and shalt
up one at a crown of gold round about it.
I don't have any pictures of it.
I didn't have time to run it off.
But you're talking about, you know, talking about two by two deep, but they molded gold crown all the way around the outside of the table.
I have a picture of that the next time I teach.
This is just for the table that the showbread set on.
Pure gold.
All right.
Thou shalt make verse 12.
Thou shalt cast four rings of gold on it.
for it and put them on the four corners thereof, and two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other.
I shall make staves of shite and wood and overlay them with gold, and I shall put the staves in the rings by the sides of the ark that the ark may be born with them.
Now this was not like the ark of the covenant, where if they touched it, they would instantly die.
This is because they're too heavy, because it was overlaid with gold.
And I shall
That is the Ark of the Covenant.
I'm sorry.
I'm reading ahead of myself.
This is the Ark of the Covenant.
Okay, this is leading up to the show break.
Now shall put the Ark of the Testimony, which I'll give thee, thus shall make the mercy seat a pure goal, two cubics, and there shall be the length of it and the cubic, the breadth of it.
All right, let's, 25 to 30, one more.
Okay, let's go to 23.
Here's where I wanted to go.
I shouldn't have gone there because I was already covered dark.
All right, now shall make a table of Scheidemurt.
This is the same size.
Two cubics shall be the length of it and a cubic the breadth of it and a cubic the height of it.
That shall overlay it with pure gold and make into it a crown round about it.
Now shall make it a border in the hand breath around it.
What that means is about the depth of it was like seven hand breaths wide.
Verse 26.
And thou shalt make it four rings of gold and put the rings on the four corners that are on the four feet above it.
Over against the border shall be the rings for the places of the staff to bear the table.
Bear it because it was heavy, not because they would get killed.
And thou shalt make the staffs of Shalom wood and overlay them with gold and the table may be born with them.
And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, spoons thereof, covers thereof, bowls thereof,
to cover with all of pure gold, and I shall make them, and I shall set upon the table showbread before me always."
Now the showbread, before the law, the leader of the home, the man in the home was the priest in the home.
They preached for sacrifice.
It was the leader of the home who was in charge of the spirituality of the home.
When the tabernacle was ordered, leading up to that, God ordained the Levites to be the priests.
Nothing but the Levites.
And it started with Aaron.
Aaron was the first high priest.
Okay.
I'm gonna get into this here in just a second.
Okay, let's go to Leviticus chapter 24.
Talking about the Shobri.
Now, they would make six cakes on one side, six cakes on the other and frankincense in the center.
12 cakes altogether.
Each cake representing a tribe of Israel.
Okay.
Leviticus chapter 24.
I'm going to cover this pretty deep here in just a second.
Okay.
First chapter 24 and verse 1.
And the Lord said, Baker and Moses saying, command the children of Israel that they bring unto the pure olive oil beaten for the light and to cause the lamps to burn continually.
Without the veil of the testimony of the tabernacles of the congregation shall Aaron order it from the evening to the morning and shall burn and shall be for the Lord continually.
It shall be a statute forever in your generations.
He shall call, shall order the lamps upon the pure camp
He shall order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the Lord continually.
Verse five, thou shalt take fine flour and bake twelve cakes thereof, two tenths of a deal for one cake.
Okay, and that is, it's about three quarts for each cake.
And I shall set them two rows of six upon a row and put in pure table of
before the Lord.
And I shall put pure frankincense upon each row that it may be on a bread for memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the Lord.
Every Sabbath that shall be set in order to the Lord continually being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant.
And it shall be in his sons, and they shall eat it in the holy place, and the most holy unto the hymn of the offerings of the Lord made by fire
for a perpetual statue.
Okay, that may have been confusing, but let me paraphrase it here a little bit and break it down.
The Levites were the priests.
Inside the temple, you had the mercy seat, the Ark of the Covenant, and everything behind the second veil.
Behind the first veil, now these veils were 60 foot high, 30 foot wide, and four inches thick.
They put horses on each quarter and tried to quarter them to break them.
Inside the first veil was where the showbread was.
And what they would do is every single week a new priest, a different priest, according to his course, I'm not going to cover the courses, I'll do that at Christmas time.
But every week a new priest would come in and the priest would carry on the order of the service and the order of the tabernacle.
And they would come in and they would take new bread.
And they baked it real hard and real heavy, and it would last an entire week without molding.
It stayed fresh and stayed warm on the table.
At the end of this week, they were coming out and the priests would divide the bread up and they would eat the bread as the new bread was put in.
And this happened every week.
And this is what God had ordained, said, the show bread is so that you can keep in your heart and in your mind a reminder that I'm the source.
It has nothing to do with the supernatural power.
It's an offering unto the Lord.
Lord, thank you for providing, for being the provider.
Am I breaking this down here to bring this as we get closer further deep in this lesson?
Looking at it today in your life, what would you consider a showbred for yourself?
What do you keep in front of you?
I mean, some people got this Bible sitting on their shelf somewhere, collecting dust.
Y'all got a Bible scared bogeyman away.
Now, this is my showbred.
I eat it, I sleep it, I get up every day, and I have to have it.
Now, some people can have whatever it is.
Some people keep a statue, some people keep whatever it is.
You've got to have something in your life to keep your mind on the mind of Christ.
to get up every morning and say, Lord, help me be a blessing today.
Help me.
And so I started out with my Bible.
Now with this, the symbolic of the showbred in this case was that the priest would come in and it's a constant forever reminder.
He's the source.
He is.
And there's a lot of study on the showbred that I'm still studying.
And it's hard for me to bring it out because I don't want to confuse anybody on it.
but you had a table, let me give you the dimensions of it here.
Okay, the actual bread, it was not actually bread, it was called matzah, which is the same thing as unloving bread that, and it stood in open air for a week without getting stale because of its expertise preparation.
It's called bread of the tabernacle, later the bread of the temple.
The Torah gives details on it.
The Torah is a Jewish, it was given to the Jews,
The first grade of the, the finest grade of wheat flour baked into 12 loaves.
Each loaf was two tenths of anifa, which is 2.7 liters, which is roughly a gallon.
That's each loaf.
It's a pretty big loaf.
Two stacks of six with frankincense in the center.
Every Sabbath before God showing an internal covenant with Israel, showing them that God
It's keeping them reminded that God has created the covenant with them, has ordained the covenant with them.
And this is to keep them reminded that God has made a covenant.
This is your land.
This is you.
This is your provision.
I am your provider.
This is before grace.
This is law.
Every Sabbath before God showing an internal covenant with Israel, with holy fire,
This would break with the coals from the holy fire that the sacrifice was cooked on.
The priests would eat the loaves, and as the new ones were put in, the Talmud says the shape was like an open ark.
The real Talmud says it was like little ships, little ships.
Some say there was
curled in from the top, others say it was just baked in, it was like a box with no top.
But it was not high, it was not deep, and it was like, so it would stack.
Okay, only the priest could eat the bread.
And you'll see where I'm going with this in just a second.
I didn't want to confuse you on that.
how and what the reason why the showbread was made.
It was in the temple, it was in the tabernacle to keep people reminded that God is the source, that God provided the manna and as we travel, now the showbread is to keep the priest right with God.
See, they had to be sinless, not sinless, but had their sins covered before they could even eat it, before they could sacrifice for you,
See, that's like me.
If you asked me to pray for you and you gave me a deep prayer request, I'm not going to just say, yeah, I have to keep ready.
I'm especially here in the church, but if you guys give me something, I've got to go home and I've got to cleanse myself from bad thoughts, from stuff so that I can reach him.
because God said, if we hide iniquity in our hearts, He's not gonna hear us.
Now, for me to sit there and say, I don't have iniquity, I'm not an immoral person, but let me tell you something, I'm flesh, and I'm human.
So if I'm gonna pray for you, I just can't sit there and chew bubblegum and say, yeah, I'll do that.
No, I'll take it serious.
And I'm gonna come down and I'm gonna say, oh God, I said this, I did this, I thought this, I did this, forgive me, Lord.
and cleanse me, and I get clean, and then I can come before a holy God.
See, it's like God on the outside of that wall, the door's closed.
When I get clean, the door's open, and we can have fellowship.
These priests had to be right before they could not only sacrifice for people, but before they could even eat the show bread.
Now, we're gonna get into what David did here in just a minute.
Okay, this is the same thing that when we have communion, we're taking the body of Christ and we're breaking the bread and we're remembering what Christ did for us.
They're remembering what God did for them.
And that's why Jesus, when he said, I'm the bread of life.
And we just covered that scripture.
But when we have communion, that's a constant reminder of what Christ has done for us.
We can fellowship with one another, but also it's a time for us to get right, to get right with each other, to pray for, and communion is critical in the body of Christ.
And that is also a showbread for us, symbol.
Okay.
Let's,
This is gonna be good.
Let's see if I can find it.
Yeah, here we go.
Let's go to 1 Samuel chapter 21.
We're gonna read this story here and then we're gonna flip back over to the New Testament and see how Jesus cites this incident.
to these people that were trying to trap Him.
Because Jesus was going through the field with His disciples and the disciples began to pick corn on the Sabbath.
And like most of us, fought fun.
Well, look at Him.
Look what He's doing.
Look at her.
Look what she said.
Why are you trying to teach me this?
And you're doing this.
Don't you know the law?
And you know, Jesus says, well, haven't you read in the way it was written?
David went into the king and ate showbread.
I mean, so I'll explain that here in a minute.
But right now we're in first Samuel.
This is the story that I'm going to get to in just a second.
First Samuel chapter 21.
Saul.
had just put a bounty out on David, if the story goes.
Jonathan loved David.
So Jonathan kind of tipped him off, said, Saul's going to kill you, man.
My dad's after you.
Let me find the scriptures because I want to read it.
That's 21.
OK, let's back up a little bit.
First Samuel chapter 20.
Let's see, verse 28, Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked to leave of me to go to Bethlehem.
What it is, is Jonathan tipped David off, said, my dad's going to kill you.
You need to go to Bethlehem.
Well, tell him you're going to go down there and eat on the feast.
Well, tell him you're going to go down there and you're going to worship.
So we'll tell him you were gone.
Well, Saul had planned on killing him from jealousy.
Okay, verse 29.
He said, let me go, I pray thee for our family, hath a sacrifice in the city, and my brother, he commanded me to be there.
And now, if I fell in favor of nine eyes, let me get away.
So Jonathan said, go ahead and go.
This he's asking Jonathan to leave.
So Jonathan is telling King Saul, I gave him permission to go.
That's paraphrased a little bit.
Okay.
First, let's keep reading, thy son of a perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chastened the son of Jesse, to thine own confusion and to thy confusion of thy mother's nakedness.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the holy, upon the ground, thou shalt have not established nor thy kingdom.
Wherefore now send me infetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.
And Jonathan answered Saul, his father, and sinned him.
Wherefore has he been slain?
Shall he be slain?
What has he done?
What did David actually do that deserved an execution?
Okay, so I'm gonna jump ahead into chapter 21.
I just wanted to lay the grounds for what actually happened here.
Saul put an execution date on David, David fled.
So now David fled with about 50, 70 men and left.
And he had a fallen, but David had to run for his life.
So here, let's go to chapter 21.
This will make sense in a minute when we get back to the New Testament.
Chapter 21, verse one.
Then came David to Nile, to a Himalek, the priest.
And the Himalek was afraid at the meeting of David.
He thought David was coming
going to get him because he just showed up by himself.
And he's sending him, why are you all alone?
No man with thee.
And David said to him, let the priest, the king, he's telling a lie.
David is telling a big fat lie.
It's talking about King Saul.
The king has commanded me a business and has said unto me, let no man know anything of the business.
Where about I send thee?
For what have I commanded thee?
And I have appointed my service to such and such a place.
Let me tell you, it's making up a story.
Now therefore, what is under thy hand?
Give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
He said, you got the bread under your arm.
My men are hungry.
Let me have five loaves.
And the priest answered, David said, there is no common bread under my hand, but that is hollowed bread.
If the young men have kept themselves, at least from women, this is what he's talking about, the priests.
They have to be right.
They eat this bread here.
This is holy bread, holy bread from God.
You just can't eat this bread.
This is for the priests.
It's ordained from the beginning.
Only priests are supposed to eat this bread.
And David answered the priest and said to him, of a truth.
Now I have a feeling that this king was scared.
The David was going to get David to say, if you don't give me this, hey, we're hungry, we're going to take it.
And David answered the priest and said in him, of a truth, women have been kept from us for about three days.
Since I came out and the vessels of the younger men are holy.
He's talking about they're clean, they're right, they've prayed up, they've gotten right with God.
We're clean, we're on the run.
And the bread,
And the bread is in the manner of common, yay, though it was sanctified this day in the vessel.
So the priest gave him the hallowed bread and there was no bread there but the show bread.
And that was taken from before the Lord to put on a hot bread in the day that it was taken away.
Okay, now we're gonna jump ahead to the New Testament.
All right, let's go to Mark.
chapter 2, well, let's go to the first one, Matthew chapter 12.
We'll cover back this story here.
This is all born and done to two things with the lesson is today.
What do you have in your life that keeps you prayed up, loved up, right with the Lord?
Or do we go through all day long
never reading our Bible, never praying, never praying for people in the church, never God-minded.
Do we just live our life and, oh, it's Sunday.
Me and David have talked about this.
Look at this class here.
There used to be 100 people in here.
Where is the love for Sunday school?
When I was coming up, I'm telling you what.
Sunday school was part of our life as much as the ministry, as much as ministries, as missionaries, as much.
I mean, my father, we would have to leave sometimes at eight o'clock in the morning.
He drove a bus and we would bring 60 teenagers to church on Sunday morning and just fill every Sunday school class up.
And everybody was so much excitement just to get back in the house of God.
And let me tell you something.
Our showbred coming up, we had family devotions every single night, but my showbred was, we had on the backside of our kitchen table, we had every single missionary that our church supported, every single one of them.
And my dad had assigned each one of us four, that no matter where we were, where we went, what we did,
We were to pray for these four missionaries that were assigned to us, and our whole family had them.
Now, we prayed for all of them, but we had specific.
And mine was Mel Rudder, Dottie Rudder, Brother Mel, and Dott, the Brownings, and Brother Gunner.
And here's the deal with Brother Gunner.
He's a missionary to Bolivia.
John Gunner, I prayed for him as long as I can remember.
Six years old and on, on.
And I still, he's dead.
But I still, every time I eat in my own mind, I say, Lord, thank you for this food, thank you for the provided, bless Brother Mel and God, Brownies and Brother Gunner.
They're all dead.
It's just a habit.
But here's what happened on a Christmas, we had a camp, teen camp.
Craig Edwards was teaching on a Thursday night, preaching to the teenage camp.
I got under conviction.
I went up and I got saved.
And guess who won me to the Lord?
John Gunner was off the mission field for furlough that week.
And the missionary that I prayed for my entire life led me to the Lord.
Isn't that powerful?
To me, that is really, really special.
So what I'm saying about that is, what is it in your life?
Ours were missions.
That's why we're so hard on missions.
Missions has changed this world.
We wouldn't be here if it weren't for missions.
And it's the heartbeat of God.
So what is it that's in your life that you sit there and you, oh God, thank you for providing?
It's not just thank you for the food.
How many times do we just actually get in on our knees?
I'm not going to ask you for nothing.
I'm not going to ask you for one thing.
I just want to tell you how much I love you, Lord.
Thank you for feeding me.
Thank you for providing for me.
Thank you for the clothes that I wear, the nice place to worship.
Oh God, I just want to praise you, Lord.
Today is not the day for me to ask you for nothing.
I just want to thank you for being such a big God.
Your name is hallowed, Lord.
Oh God, I just love you so much.
And just pour your heart out in love to the holy God that does love us.
I mean, there's got to be something in our lives that
keeps our mind off of news, off of chaos, off of junk, off of garbage that we can just get that alone in time with God and just get down to business.
Okay, Matthew chapter, I need to get this going.
Matthew chapter 12.
Let me see where I'm at here.
Yeah, Matthew chapter 12.
Let's look at verse one through six.
Now here, Jesus, verse one through six.
At that time, Jesus went through on the Sabbath day.
Now the law said no man is supposed to do no work on the Sabbath, none, zero.
Absolutely, that is totally against the law, no work.
At that time, Jesus went on the Sabbath the day through the corn and his disciples were hungry and began to pluck ears of corn into eat.
But when the Pharisees saw it,
They said in him, behold, our disciples do that, which is not lawful upon the Sabbath day.
But he said in him, have you not read what David did when he was hungry?
And they were that were with him.
And so as further study, I'm not going to have time to get there.
There were 70 men with him.
That's what I said.
The 12 cakes, each one, they say it was like close to eight pounds of loaf.
I mean, that's a heck of a loaf of bread.
This is the show bread.
How the David, have you not read what David did when he was hungry and they that were with him?
How he entered into the house of God.
For one, he weren't supposed to go in there.
That's off limits.
Now I know good and well he didn't go behind the second veil.
That's for the high priest.
God would have struck him.
But how the David, God did eat the show verse four.
How he entered into the house of God and did eat the show bread.
which was not lawful for him to eat.
See, God had commanded nothing but the priests to go eat this showbread, because they're the ones responsible for delivering the holiness of God to the people, for them to offer sacrifice for the people, for them to get the coverings for the sins for the people.
The priests were the only ones who were lawful to eat the showbread.
Here David comes in,
and eats, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them that were with him, but only for the priests.
Well, have you not read the law how that on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless?
And I say unto you in this place, there's one greater than the temple.
And see, this is just a powerful scripture here, folks.
He's saying, look, Jesus didn't sin.
God looks at the inside of people.
God looks at the heart.
Now if Jesus, if David had a woman in there, oh, I don't care, I'm not a priest, I'm gonna go in here and I'm gonna, we're gonna just take over this temple and we're gonna go in here and we're gonna eat this bread.
Temple won't build then, I'm sorry.
This tabernacle of God, we're gonna just get this bread and we're gonna eat.
No, David was hungry, David was on the run, David's heart was right with God, the men had all prayed up.
And this is the way God provided for them.
God did not wink and say, oh, well, I'll lower look at this time because, you know, no, God looks at your heart.
He knows if you're sinning or not.
He knows if we're sinning or not.
He knows if we're wrong and we know it.
That's the big thing.
We know it.
Okay.
So I'm gonna have to finish up here in just a second with this one.
This one may seem, this lesson may be a little boring compared to some of them I've taught.
But very few people really understand what the show break was really all about in the temple.
It's to remind us.
It was for these Jews to constantly be reminded.
Number one, God provided for us an exodus out of bondage.
He provided for us food through our entire 40 year journey.
Now,
He is providing us, this is for you to see that it totally reminds you what the Lord has actually done and will do.
So, let me finish up here.
Okay, I got one more thing, hold on.
Well, I can't find it.
Anyway, I'm gonna have to stop with there, because I've lost one section of my notes.
But just keep in mind, folks, as far as our life goes, as far as we are concerned in this life, when Jesus said, I am the bread of life, no man comes to the Father but by me, I am the true bread that God sent down from heaven.
First they had the manna, then they had the showbread.
Then we had Jesus.
Jesus becomes the high priest, and now he is now
We have communion with him now in the local church.
But this right here, folks, should be forefront of your heart, forefront of your mind.
I say this quite often.
I'm not saying this to boast it all.
But this is my, from cover to cover, even the maps.
I'm on my 30th time studying this book.
The first seven or eight, I was just reading it, then I got into it.
And what is your showbred?
That's the meat of this lesson.
What is your showbred?
What are you feasting on during the week?
What are you praying about?
Or do you pray?
What are you reading?
There's a difference, folks.
And oh, yeah, I'm going to read this chapter today.
And it's a difference in reading and studying.
David has talked about that before.
You know what I like to do?
The book of Proverbs has got 30 days, 31 chapters, 30.
Whatever day of the week it is, I do this every single day.
If it's today to 12, I haven't done it today because I was preparing for the lesson.
I read Proverbs 12, tomorrow, 13.
The next day, chapter 14.
And I just read the chapter.
That's reading, folks.
That's not getting into this, oh, what does that mean?
What does this mean?
Let's go back and forth.
So it's a difference in studying than just your family devotion, your personal devotion.
And so just find something in your life that keeps you focused on Him, keeps you focused on the Lord, keeps you, I mean, you figure, you know why we pray so much in this church for each other?
Because I know how brother Leslie Baker sits over here and he farms hay.
We, my wife, we farm animals.
Everything I do is outside.
I pray, Lord, don't let it rain today.
Please, Lord, don't let it rain.
I got this to do that.
Lord, please, you know, back brother Leslie's doing, oh God, I need rain.
I need rain, Lord, for my hand to grow.
And God is not up there flipping the coin saying, oh God, today rains.
He's not doing that.
We got to let go and say, it's in God's hands, whatever he wills, let it be.
I may be praying for no rain.
If it pours down rain, I can't say, say, you don't answer my prayer.
Why didn't you answer my prayer?
I prayed for no.
So we just got to let everything go.
Because one thing about a praying church, if we're all praying, we don't know if God's going to answer your prayer, mine, yours.
We got somebody sick here in the church called for everybody to just pray.
We don't know who God is going to answer.
We don't know which way the wind is going to blow.
We don't know what.
So it's important for us all to pray together because it's not going to be.
Yeah, I prayed for him and God answered that.
Yep, that prayer was answered because I prayed.
No, that's not what God wants.
God wants collectively us to pray as our unit.
and let him get the glory for the increase.
It doesn't matter.
You plant, you water, and God gives the increase.
You listen to Deacon Danny Kahoot.
For more information, visit our website at Buford Road BaptistChurch.com.